---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2019-12-07 19:46:00+00:00
draft: false
title: ""
type: post
url: /99/
categories:
- nature
---

It has been 8 weeks now that I have been taking antidepressants for my Social Anxiety Disorder. I was initially sceptical about trying them but ultimately concluded that it was worth a shot. Fortunately I got few side effects - nausea for a couple of weeks, and some very vivid and surreal dreams. Of the many possible side effects listed I note one is that you might feel ‘too happy’!

In terms of improving my mood and reducing anxiety I didn’t notice any effect until maybe 6 weeks in. But the effects have started to make themselves felt. It’s subtle. I feel lighter, like life is less effort. I am not worrying in anticipation of things in quite the same way. I feel clearer headed. My family tell me I am less grumpy!

There have also been some unexpected effects. I am finding I have more overall energy, more interest in things and less of the ‘impending end of something’ feeling. I think what this points to is that depressive symptoms were more at play in my life than I realised.

What isn’t obvious is whether these changes are down to the medication, placebo effect, the other steps I am taking or any combination of the above. But that doesn’t matter to me right now. Something seems to be working and that is the important thing.

While reading about antidepressants I have learnt they can [increase the neuroplasticity of the brain](https://www.theguardian.com/science/brain-flapping/2017/jul/10/how-do-antidepressants-actually-work?) meaning that the brain is better able to make new connections and thus more receptive to being ‘taught’ better ways of thinking. As I understand it this is why they are used in conjunction with Cognitive Behavioural Therapy courses.

I wouldn’t be happy to take antidepressants as the sole way of addressing the issues I am dealing with, but as one of several tools to help me on the way to recovery I’m ok to go with them for now.
