---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-08-03 04:58:24+00:00
draft: false
title: ""
type: post
url: /889-2/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
post_format:
- Status
tags:
- coronavirus
- mental health
---

Have been finding it difficult to write anything of a personal nature at the moment. A few days ago I started writing about how, since the start of the lockdown, I have finally reached a kind of equilibrium. Adaptation to the new normal, at least, the current new normal.



It almost feels like emotional numbness. Maybe it is. While here in the SW we have experienced little of Covid itself, living with the lockdown measures has been a strain, as it has for everyone else.

While I was able to continue working and so maintain something of the old normal, seeing my family dealing with much greater restriction was hard to do. Wished I could have done something to ease the difficulty of it.

At the moment I have an appetite for stories. Am listening and watching and reading in far greater quantities than usual. I’m sure this is a reaction to everything that has gone on. Think I have read somewhere that this is a Thing.

Living a socially paired down existence means there is less pressure to deal with the social anxiety. This is not such a good thing, as what momentum I had gained through doing the CBT has somewhat stalled.

Maybe I shouldn’t be to hard on myself. Maybe accept that right now is a time to take a breather and recharge. Enjoy time with my family. Enjoy the stories.
