---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-04-09 19:54:01+00:00
draft: false
title: ""
type: post
url: /619-2/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
post_format:
- Status
tags:
- birding
- coronavirus
- nature
- positives
---

Some positives from the last week or so...

For the second time in a week I have seen a peregrine falcon. This one was circling about a hundred metres above me - the heavier build was a give away, distinguishing it from our other falcons and hawks. The white on its face catching the sun as it wheeled, it climbed higher and higher without so much as a flap of the wings. Eventually it bent its wings back slightly and went into a glide, accelerating into the haze until I could no longer see it.



* * *



Of the few interactions I have with people at the moment, I have noticed that they smile more readily or give a greeting. While filling up with fuel recently another person pulled up at the adjacent pump and said 'Good morning' to me. That never usually happens. Normally, everyone is so preoccupied with their day that we are all go about our business in a vacuum.

More smiles can only be a good thing. I hope it continues into our post-pandemic world.



* * *



A week or so ago I emailed our MP to flag up our concern with what were, at the time, a distinct lack of measures to help self-employed people financially such as ourselves. Given that the southwest of England has one of the highest proportions of self-employed people in the country I imagine he was inundated with similar emails.

It took a few days, but I did get a response, and a good one at that, even if it was somewhat cut and paste. By that time the government had announced the new measures anyway so we were happy with that, but nonetheless I was pleased he did respond.



* * *



Not being able to buy flour from the supermarket has meant we have had to search elsewhere. My wife came across [Burcott Mill](http://burcottmill.com/mill.aspx) and we have duly acquired a 12kg bag of their organic wholemeal flour. It makes the **most** delicious bread in our bread maker, and I really mean that. I think we will be converting to using their flour as standard from now on.
