---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-02-14 11:34:00+00:00
draft: false
title: ""
type: post
url: /137/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
tags:
- mental health
---

When [I decided to write](https://www.strandlines.blog/2019/11/13/blogging-about-mental.html) about my experience with mental illness I didn’t really have in mind how much or how often I would share my thoughts. It was a case of have a go and see where it led. What I definitely hadn’t given consideration to was what, and if, to write when I am not feeling so great.

Part of the exercise was about being honest about the experience, and it goes without saying that a big part of most mental illness is not feeling too good about yourself. So it figures that when things are a bit of a shitshow that I should still write about it, otherwise I am not really expressing the full gamut of what it's like.

This leaves me with a dilemma - on the one hand I do want to be honest about the experience, on the other I don't want to come across as complaining or self-pitying. Bad times are just the way it goes, and I have to find a way to talk about that.

The other aspect is that shame is one of the things you commonly find in the big party bag that is mental illness, and as anyone who has dealt with the aformentioned will know, when shame is rearing its head the last thing you want is the attention of other people.

I'm not there yet but I hope that over time I can find a way to write about the uncomfortable stuff in a way that I am as comfortable with as I can be. If that makes sense...
