---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-04-26 07:58:12+00:00
draft: false
title: None
type: post
url: /664-2/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
post_format:
- Status
tags:
- mental health
- social anxiety disorder
---

It is a year ago today since I first recognised something of what was going on with my mental health. It has been a long 12 months, going through various states of mind as I have tried to come to terms with it all.

I haven’t posted much on the subject of late, largely because I have been receiving CBT since January and it is prettty intense. I have now finished the course except for a couple of follow up sessions and it seems a good time to reflect on both the therapy and the last year.

There is so much to think about that no one single post will cover it so I am planning to do a number of posts - planning, I emphasise! They probably won’t be posted in any kind of organised way either…

While I have experienced a whole gamut of emotions digging into what has been going on, with a bit of perspective that a year gives me, I can safely say that addressing my mental health has been one of the best things I have done in a long time.

That’s not to say that it has all _felt_ good by any means - some of the time it has been bloody awful and I’ve questioned my ability to continue. Nor is it to say that all is done and dusted. I suspect I will continue to live with mental illness (I shall call it what it is) for a long time to come, but in amongst the negatives I have a greater understanding of myself and the nature of mental health, some tools to help me on my way and a sense of hope.
