---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-05-05 06:31:36+00:00
draft: false
title: None
type: post
url: /694-2/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
post_format:
- Status
tags:
- mental health
- social anxiety disorder
---

A while back [Colin Walker](https://colinwalker.blog) commented on a [post](https://strandlines.blog/137/) of mine:



<blockquote>Mental health awareness has come on in leaps and bounds recently but, for many, that’s still all it is: an awareness. We need to convert that into an understanding.

</blockquote>



Fortunately, we are more aware of mental health issues today, certainly compared to how it was when I was growing up. Prior to facing up to my own issues I considered that I had a basic appreciation of what having a mental illness meant. I couldn’t have been more wrong.

Learning about the condition I live with has entailed finding out about mental health issues more generally. I have been shocked at how little I _really_ knew about even the more common illnesses like depression and anxiety, let alone more serious ones. I have also had to realise that I am not without my prejudices.

I’m sure greater understanding will come from mental health being discussed more openly. If we can get to a place of better understanding then this in turn will, I hope, lead to greater empathy. Given that most of us will be touched by mental illness at some point in our lives more empathy can only be a good thing.

It doesn’t matter if it is for those who have a diagnosable illness or are simply experiencing the day to day stress of life, I hope that my own experience has increased my empathy for others.
