---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-05-25 05:03:37+00:00
draft: false
title: ""
type: post
url: /752-2/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
post_format:
- Status
tags:
- books
- coronavirus
- random thoughts
---

Thoughts have not come easily for the last few days. A flatness in my mind, probably induced in part by a lack of sleep, which in turn is brought on by the short nights and hayfever.

Having finally developed a sense of stability around The Situation for the moment, a kind of ennui has settled in. Not a frame of mind I particularly go for.

_This is neither thoroughly unpleasant nor very enjoyable._

Nonetheless, a relaxing weekend meant I caught up on some reading. _Robert Pirsig’s_ [Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zen_and_the_Art_of_Motorcycle_Maintenance), a book that has long been on the list.

A nice bit where a discussion around photographing the prairie occurs. Or the difficulties thereof.



<blockquote>You need a three-hundred-and-sixty degree lens, or something. You see it, and then you look down in the ground glass and it’s just nothing. As soon as you put a border on it, it’s gone.</blockquote>



Put me in mind of our trip through Canada back in 2002. Driving west through Alberta with the prairie all around. The sight of the Rockies appearing on the horizon stretching as far as you could see in either direction.

Took photos. That never did it justice.

We try to squeeze every sight, sound and experience into a box, a frame, a screen. But some just won’t fit.

I should finish reading _Susan Sontag’s_ [On Photography](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/On_Photography). Started it about a decade ago but never finished it for some complicated reason.
