---
author: stephen_strandlines
date: 2020-04-27 20:08:13+00:00
draft: false
title: None
type: post
url: /681-2/
categories:
- uncategorised
kind:
- Note
post_format:
- Status
tags:
- coronavirus
- get outdoors
---

Here in the UK, the guidance on what constitutes a reasonable excuse to leave the house includes ‘driving to countryside and walking (where far more time is spent walking than driving)’. We took this at face value yesterday and drove to a local spot for a 3 mile walk in woodland. It was a lovely day and we enjoyed bluebells and the fresh green of new beech leaves. There were a few other walkers about but everyone was considerate and sensible.

When we got back to the car we found the police had stuck a leaflet under our wiper, as they had also done with any other cars around. Of the advice it gave one sentence stood out: ‘You should not be driving to a location away from home’ for exercise. So despite the guidelines being endorsed by both the CPS and National Police Chief’s Council there is still disparity in the advice being given. Ho hum.

On Saturday I took my son for a 10k ride on the hills near us. He has just moved up to a bigger bike and I wanted to give him the chance to get off-road for a bit. I was really impressed with how well he did, as it was a big step up from what he is used to. Not that I can describe myself as a ‘mountain biker’ per se, even if I own one.

All this makes me appreciate all over again the opportunities we have locally for fresh air and exercise.
